---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1. My experience with WODs 3.1 - 3.3"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-10
published: true
labels:
  - Essay
  - E1
---



For each WOD that you finished, describe how long it took to finish and what you learned (about HTML, CSS, VS Code, LiveReload, or Chrome Developer Tools). For each WOD that you DNF’d, explain what happened and what you learned to improve. If you did a WOD multiple times, report the times of all of your attempts and what you learned by doing them more than once. Make sure your writing is “for you and your classmates”, not “for the instructor”. Details are important! Give specific advice on what works and what to avoid or is not helpful. For example, here a a very common bit of advice students have shared to help others:

My Responses
WOD 3.1 was the first WOD and it took the longest to complete. I while completeing WOD 1 I learned about Createing sections useing the section tag and being able to Id them in html. live reload was very useful to speed up the coding process. I also learned about screen recording on my Mac computer as well as how to uplaod to youtube. After many attempts and finally commpleteing WOD 3.1, I realized that I need to be more organized when completeing the WODs as I spent too much time rereading the instructions. I also realized that I should Complete the WOD completely first to ensure I know what the process should look like. At first I didn't realize Dan Port had a video explaining what to do so I spent some time trying to figure it out using google and chat gpt to help with parts I didn't understand. I did this over multiple attepts and learned that chatgpt can handle you making detailed and specific propmts if you word it right. It helps to ask your prompt in different ways to find the best results. Chat gpt was a huge help as it saved me time in typeing but also gave me a general Idea of what the final code looked like which I could then use to reverse engineer the structure and meaning of the code. It was good at makeing a template that I could edit to fit my needs.

WOD 3.2 was about changeing the style of the webpage using a CSS file. Compared to the other two WODs this one went fairly smoothly. I biggest take away from WOD 3.2 was about being able to code in fonts by using Google Fonts. I learned from my mistake from the last WOD and made sure I had typed an organized list of instructions to follow that also included which tags and concepts are being applied in each step. That way I knew what to type in each step instead of having to pull from memory. I also made sure to completely finish both the WOD and Dan Ports video explaing the WOD before attempting to record my WOD.

WOD 3.3 Was about formatting the page by adding columns and a navigation bar. In this WOD I was introduced to how to use the div tag 
to Identify parts of the html file so that they can be formatted in the CSS file. There a bit of time fiddleing with the margins and I did run into an issue with the spacing of my sections. I went onto discord and with the help of some kind classmates I was able to correct the mistake quickly. I also had to troubleshoot some mistakes I made while recording which made for a bit of awkward silence. 
